AWS ELASTIC CACHE

Cache:
	In computing, a cache is a hardware or software component that stores data so that future requests for that data can be served faster; the data stored in a cache might be the result of an earlier computation or a copy of data stored elsewhere.

Pros and cons:
	The main advantage, and also the goal, of caching is speeding up loading and minimizing system resources needed to load a page. The main disadvantage is how it's implemented by the developers, and then maintaining proper caching system for the website, making it properly manageable by the Admin.

Elastic Cache:
	Amazon ElastiCache improves the performance of web applications by allowing you to retrieve information from a fast, managed, in-memory system, instead of relying entirely on slower disk-based databases.
			or
	You can use ElastiCache for caching, which accelerates application and database performance, or as a primary data store for use cases that don't require durability like session stores, gaming leaderboards, streaming, and analytics. ElastiCache is compatible with Redis and Memcached.

Difference between REDIS and MEMCACHED

Parameter				REDIS						MEMCACHED
Initial Release		It was released in 2009.				It was released in 2003.
Developer			It was developed by Salvatore Sanfilippo.			It was developed by Danga Interactive.
Cores Used		It uses single cores.					It uses multiple cores.
Length of a key		In Redis, maximum key length is 2GB.			In Memcached, maximum key length is 250 bytes.
Installation		It is simple and easier to install as compared to Memcached.	It may be difficult to install.
Data Structure		It uses list, string, hashes, sorted sets and bitmaps as 
			data structure.					It uses only string and integers as data structure.
Speed			It reads and writes speed is slower than Memcached.		It reads and writes speed is higher than Redis.
Replication		It supports Master-Slave Replication and Multi-Master 
			Replication methods.					It does not support any replication method.
Durability			It is more durable than Memcached.			It is less durable than Redis.
Secondary database model	It has Document Store, Graph DBMS, Search Engine, and
			Time Series DBMS as secondary database models.		It has no secondary database models.
Persistence		It uses persistent data.				It does not use persistent data.
Partitioning method		It supports Sharding.					It does not support any partitioning method.








